:badge[/Frontend/Basics/]<br><hr>

# Markdown 📝

Markdown is a lightweight markup language that you can use to add formatting elements to plaintext documents. It was created by John Gruber in 2004 as a way to create formatted text that is easy to read and write.

Markdown is used for a variety of purposes, including:

- Writing blog posts and articles
- Creating documentation
- Taking notes
- Writing emails
- Creating README files

Markdown files have the extension `.md` and are used all over Github as you'll see.

::list{type="info"}
- Fun Fact: Each of these guide pages are actually made using mostly Markdown
- Also, Markdown has support for some HTML elements such as `p` tags and `img` tags.
::
<br>

::list{type="warning"}
- I won't get into it here, but for big projects you can also use markdown with README's to make a documentation page/wiki built into your github repository
::

## Basic Markdown syntax ✏️

I don't think a video is necessary for mardown as it's pretty simple but I did add one at the end for markdown.

Markdown uses a simple syntax that is easy to learn. Here are some of the most common Markdown elements:

- **Headings**: Headings are created using the hash symbol (#). The number of hash symbols determines the level of the heading. For example, a single hash symbol (#) creates a level 1 heading, while two hash symbols (##) create a level 2 heading and so on (The more #'s there are, the smaller the heading).
- **Bold**: Bold text is created by surrounding the text with two asterisks (\*\*). For example, **this text is bold** -> `**this text is bold**`. (If you've ever used discord and done this, that's also markdown)
- **Italic**: Italic text is created by surrounding the text with one asterisk (\*). For example, *this text is italicized* -> `*this text is italicized*`.
- **Lists**: Lists are created using hyphens (-), asterisks (*), or plus signs (+). For example:

```
- This is a bulleted list
- This is another bulleted list
* This is a bulleted list
* This is another bulleted list
+ This is a bulleted list
+ This is another bulleted list
```

- **Links**: Links are created by surrounding the link text with square brackets \[like so\] and the link URL with parentheses \(https://like.so). For example, [this is a link](https://www.example.com) -> `[this is a link](https://www.example.com)`.
- **Code blocks**: Code blocks are created by indenting the code by four spaces or by surrounding the code with three backticks (\`). For example:

```
This is a code block.
```

You can also specify if the codeblock contains a specific language like Javascript and the code inside will be highlighted accordingly. Here's an example (you might not see the highlighted colors depending on your platform):

```javascript
console.log("Hi Mom!");
``` 

would be typed out as:


\`\`\`javascript

console.log("Hi Mom!");

\`\`\`

Also, if you just want a single line of text too look `like so`, you use a single backtick (\`) -> \`like so\`

- **Tables**: I don't use tables in markdown much but their syntax is a little complicated so if you want, you can read more [here](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#tables) along with other extended syntax info.

## README files

README files are used to provide information about a GitHub repository. They are typically located in the root directory of the repository and sometimes in folders within a repository for more complex projects. README files can contain any type of information, but they often include the following:

- A description of the repository
- Instructions on how to use the repository
- A list of contributors
- A list of dependencies
- A license
- Any special sections aligning with your project

You can see an example of one of my README's [here](https://github.com/ZachLTech/PhysicalSizeOfTheInternetSite). This example is pretty extreme and has many sections but it's good to see what you can do with markdown.  

::list{type="info"}
- I like to also add a TODO section for [WIP](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/wip) projects and emojis here and there for fun 
::



## Double Challenge ❗❗

### 1. Create a Repo README file

Make a `README.md` for your websites GitHub repository. 
::list{style="success"}
- Make sure to include all of the relevant information
- Although since it's just a portfolio, instead of adding a license and usage/contributors, etc., Add just a description that is basically your website and all of it's contents but in markdown form like your skills, experience, etc. and organized
- You can also add any other section before the markdown based portfolio relating to your code.
::

### 2. Upgrade your GitHub Profile

Many github profiles out there have a nice custom page beside their profile picture and info. This is done by adding a README.md file to a special repository which is your challenge. 

Usually, extensive GitHub profile README's include the following information:

::list{style="success"}
- A brief introduction of yourself
- Your skills and experience
- Your interests
- Links to your other online profiles
::

#### Tips for writing a good README

- **Keep it concise**. Your README should be easy to read and scan. Avoid using too much jargon or technical language.
- **Use clear and concise language**. Use simple, easy-to-understand language. Avoid using ambiguous or vague language.
- **Be specific**. Don't just list your skills and experience. Provide specific examples of your work.
- **Use visuals**. Visuals can help to make your README more engaging and easier to read. Consider using images, graphs, or charts to illustrate your points.
- **Proofread your README**. Make sure your README is free of errors. Ask a friend or me (lol) to review your README before you publish it.

#### How to add a README to your GitHub profile

1. Go to your GitHub profile page.
2. Click on the **Edit profile** button.
3. Scroll down to the **About** section.
4. Click on the **Add a README** button.
5. Enter your README content in the text box.
6. Click on the **Save changes** button.

The README.md you just made for your github profile is stored in a repository on your account which is named as your username. 

::callout
#summary
Click me once you've completed!!
#content
Your README will now be visible on your GitHub profile page!! If you haven't already shared your github profile from the earlier guides, you totally should! I love to see a good ol fresh Readme haha
<br>
:button-link[Share with Zach]{icon="material-symbols:drive-folder-upload-outline" href="https://byeurl.cyou/repoform" blank}
::

Now, if you REALLY want to go the extra mile and make your github profile extra fancy with badges, visuals, and realtime stats, here's a good video showing some interesting implementations you can add to your github profiles README 

#### Next Level GitHub Profile README - codeSTACKr

::div
  :video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n6d4KHSKqGk&t=624s"}
::



## Conclusion

Markdown is a powerful tool that can be used to create formatted text documents. It is easy to learn and use, and it is supported by a variety of applications. If you need to create formatted text documents, Markdown is a great option and you'll love it's simplicity when writing README's for your future projects! 

Sadly there isn't a "... in 100 Seconds" video for markdown by Fireship, BUT I did find a silly version that's a clone of Fireship's 100 second videos made by some kid it sounds. It's a little funny considering the microphone quality but is surprisingly informative so if you didn't understand or didn't want to read the above syntax explaination, here's a Fireship clone.

### Markdown in 100 Seconds - FAKE Fireship ❌🔥

::div
  :video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-MXwHMHfF8k"}
::

::alert{type="success"}
Congrats! You now (hopefully) have an awesome github profile with a good portfolio website that has a great README and is publicly available for all your friends (and employers) to see ❗❗
::