:badge[/Frontend/Basics/Languages]<br><hr>

# HTML 

Ok so there're 2 ways we can go about this. I'm sure you already know HTML (HyperText Markup Language) is what websites are built on. In fact, if you ever did that trick when you were younger in a school computer lab to change the words on a website, that means you've already edited HTML before!

::list{type='info'}
- Fun Fact: HTML isn't actually a programming language. As it's stated in it's name, it's actually a "Markup Language" but doesn't meet the requirements to be a programming language.
::
::list{type='warning'}
- We'll also be revisiting Fireship's channel a few times here because he has his famous "\[subject] in 100 seconds" videos which will be a pretty helpful start.
::

## Devtools
Just so you can grasp quickly what HTML looks like, if you go to any website right now and right click then hit the "inspect element" button, a whole new window will appear. This is known as the browsers devtools. And what you'll likely see is a bunch of code which is HTML. That's what we'll be learning. 

This devtools area is actually really powerful for web development and you'll come to befriend it overtime as you can edit HTML and CSS live through it as well as run javascript code. We'll come back to this topic in a more advanced section of frontend

## Fast then Slow 🐢←🏃‍♂️
First, go through 2 really quick videos that go through HTML as quick as possible to see if you're able to understand the information given to you enough that you're confident for a little challenge. If it's too confusing, that's alright as there's a slower paced version if needed.

### 🏃‍♂️ Fast: HTML in 5 minutes & 100 Seconds
::list{type='info'}
- Feel free to slow these videos down and rewind them if you missed something or if you're slightly confused
::
### 🏃‍♂️ Video: Aaron Jack ⚡
::div
  :video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=salY_Sm6mv4"}
::
### 🏃‍♂️ Video: Fireship 🔥
::div
  :video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ok-plXXHlWw"}
::

### Challenge ❗❗ 
To test if you've really absorved the information enough from the above videos & are quick on your googling feet, without AI try to create an **HTML ONLY** website/file either following your own similar criteria or following this more set criteria: 

**Movie & TV Shows Review Page:**
::list{type='success'}
- Develop a webpage where you review your favorite movies and TV Shows.
    ::list{type='warning'}
    - Separate the TV shows and Movies into at least 2 different pages (2 different HTML Documents or more if you're creative with it) which you should connect to each other with a navigation link somewhere in the page
    ::
- Include sections for the movie/show title, release year, your review, and a rating
    ::list{type='warning'}
    - Try your best to also add a cover or background image per show/movie
    ::
- You can add a separate home page if you want but that's up to you
- Also it would be funny if you figured out how to add audio of you verbally reviewing your shows & movies to add under each review- +2 Brownie points lol
- Use lists, paragraphs, audio (optional), a home image, and links
::
<br>

::list{type='info'}
- Now this site doesn't have to be super complicated or full of content, just enough for it to at least fill the criteria with 2 or 3 shows/movies each, and have fun with it yknow add some silly stuff if you want and show it off to your friends. If you need to, google anything you might need to help. 
::
<br>

::list{type='danger'}
- It's ok if you're unable to complete this challenge or give up due to lack of understanding. We'll come back to it after the rest of this guide.
::

::callout{type='warning'}
#summary
Some Boilerplate to get you started. (If not able to reproduce easily in VSCode)
#content
::code-group
  ```html [file.html]
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Hello, world!</title>
        <meta name="description" content="" />
        <link rel="icon" href="favicon.png">
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
    </body>
</html>```
::
::

::callout
#summary
Click me if/once you've completed 
#content
Once you completed it, let me know if you're comfortable with sharing! I'd love to check it out and see what you've come up with. Maybe you can add a prank youtube redirect in there somewhere and send it to your friends 😂
<br>

::list{type='warning'}
- Also for those who completed it based on the 2 fast videos, you don't technically need to continue with the below section but if you want to watch the intro and first bits, it has pretty good info and HTML foundations beyond using it
::

::


### Need Help ❓

If you weren't able to complete the challenge, it's fine. Most people won't be able to do all of that based on just those 2 very short, fast based videos.

Below is a more detailed and slightly long yet very informational video that not only goes over the basics of HTML and some basic foundational concepts, but in the video he writes a "Kevin Cookie Company" as an example page with external pages which you can also make if the challenge is too complicated for now. This was the video I used when I learned HTML and I actually went through making a secret rickroll site for my friends a year or 2 ago. I didn't actually watch the entire video though so if you think you can tackle the challenge again without finishing then go right ahead, maybe you just needed this video for a little more clarification on certain concepts.

#### 🐢 Slower: HTML Tutorial - Video: Kevin Stravert 👷
::div
  :video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQdaUv95mR8"}
::

Now if you've watched and followed along in his video then go back to the challenge and finish it off!